For future reference here is a short summary of the different possibilities offered by the code at the moment (version 0.9 - July 2013). I realise this is not very clear, but that can serve as a reference for me.

This refers only to the "symplectic flow" part of Manzoni (not for the part "map iterations").

The Hamiltonian can be either "pendulum" (simple 2D pendulum) or "interpolatingHenon4". The parameters of the system are defined in the input file in a generic way (A0 .. A1 .. .. An), each of them having a different meaning depending on the sytem.

The Hamiltonian is integrated using a symplectic integrator of order 1,2,3 or 4 for the pendulum and order 1,2 or 4 for the Henon Hamiltonian. The "turn" parameter controls the duration of the integration (in "time units) while the "timestep" parameter controls the number of steps per time unit (timestep = 0.05 means 1/0.05 steps for each "turn").

The turn by turn values of the parameters of the system go in the file integrator/@file .

A major parameter controls in which of the two different modes the computations are done : symplecticFlow/@phasePortrait = true|false. The main effect of setting the parameter to true is that the turn by turn coordinates of the particles are retained, additionally it triggers additional computations (see below).

If one wants to draw the phase portrait of a frozen system, that mode can be used. Along with the parameter integrator/@dump = true | false set to true, this provides a file containing the coordinates of all particles at the end ( file dump.dat), if phase portrait = true this provides the additional file dump_all.dat containing the coordinates of all particles at each turns.

If the code is in the "phase portrait mode", and "dump=true" the energy of each particle at each turn will be given in files energy i . dat, one file per particle.

It is possible to compute the adiabatic invariant, the corresponding parameter is hamiltonian0/@invariant = true | false . If set to true, there will be a file invariant.dat containing the initlal and final invariants of each particles. Invariant all turns = true makes this file contains the invariants for each turns (huge and slow !).

hamiltonian0/InvariantPasses (default = 100) controls the number integrations (loops) requested to reconstruct the phase space trajectory (which is integrated to obtain the invariant).

It is also possible to output the particles that are above the separatrix, below or inside. This is controlled by the parameter integrator/@separatrix = true | false . The corresponding files are upper.dat, lower.dat and island.dat .
